=About

Paperclip is intended as an easy file attachment library for Sequel. It was heavily
inspired by {Paperclip for Activerecord}[http://github.com/thoughtbot/paperclip]. The
intent behind it was to keep setup as easy as possible and to treat files as
much like other attributes as possible. This means they aren't saved to their
final locations on disk, nor are they deleted if set to nil, until #save is called. 
It has support for interpolations and postprocessors, including standart ones like 
a thumbnail generator by default.

==Install

Simply install it as any other gem:

  gem install sequel_paperclip

Or when using bundler, add it got your Gemfile:

  gem sequel_paperclip

Some postprocessors depend on external libraries or programs. Please see the processors 
sections for details.

==Quick Start

In your model:

  class User < Sequel::Model
    plugin :paperclip

    attachment :photo,
      :url => ":host:/:model:/:id:_:basename:_:style:.:format:",
      :path => ":path:/:model:/:id:_:basename:_:style:.:format:",
      :styles => {
        :small => { :geometry => "60x60#", :format => :jpg },
        :medium => { :geometry => "250x200>", :format => :jpg },
        :huge => { :geometry => "600x500>", :format => :jpg },
      },
      :processors => [
        {
          :type => :image,
          :convert_arguments => %w(-auto-orient -quality 75 -strip), # optional
        },
      ]
  end

In your migrations:

  class AddPhotoToUser < Sequel::Migration
    def up
      alter_table :users do
        add_column :photo_basename, String
        add_column :avatar_file_size, Integer # optional
      end
    end

    def down
      alter_table :users do
        drop_column :photo_file_name
        drop_column :avatar_file_size
      end
    end
  end

In your edit and new views:

  <% form_for @user, :html => { :multipart => true } do |form| %>
    <%= form.file_field :photo %>
  <% end %>

In your controller:

  def create
    # nothing need's to be changed
  end

  def update
    # nothing need's to be changed
  end

  def destroy
    # nothing need's to be changed
  end

In your show view:

  <%= image_tag @user.photo_url(:small) %>
  <%= image_tag @user.photo_url(:medium) %>
  <%= image_tag @user.photo_url(:huge) %>

==Interpolations

To support flexible urls and paths Paperclip supports variable interploations. 
Strings to be interpolated look like :xxx:. The following predefined interpolations
exist:

  id: record id
  model: underscored, pluralized class name
  host: "/system"
  path: Rails public system folder
  style: style (user.photo_url(:thumb) -> :thumb)
  format: format defined for the passed style
  filename: filename
  filesize: only available if a database column photo_file_size exists
  basename: basename of the filename
  extname: extname of the filename
  rails_root: Rails.root
  rails_ev: Rails.env

To add your own interploation, put the following code in some initializer. If
using rails a good location is initializers/paperclip.rb:

  Sequel::Plugins::Paperclip::Interpolations.set(:host) do |attachment, model, style|
    Rails.env.production? ? "http://some.fancy.mirror.com" : "/system"
  end

This would add/ replace the :host: interpolation.

==Processors

Processors are run before the attachment is saved. Multiple processors can be 
specified, and they will be invoked in the order they are defined in the 
:processors array.

The following processors are included by default:

===image
Adds the ability to generate thumbnails. Requires imagemagick to installed and the 
convert and identify commands being in the path and executable. Expects a geometry 
definition for each defined style. If a format is defined for a style, the image 
is converted to that format. 

===dummy
This processor is only used internally and should never be used.

==Storage

Attachments are stored as files in the file system. To specify the location,
please have a look at the example above and interpolations.

==Todo

* Source documentation (rdoc)
* Tests

==Contributing

If you'd like to contribute a feature or bugfix: Thanks! To make sure your
fix/feature has a high chance of being included, please read the following
guidelines:

1. Fork the project.
2. Make your feature addition or bug fix.
3. Add tests for it. This is important so we don’t break anything in a future version unintentionally.
4. Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
5. Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


